---
title: Dependency Injection
subtitle: Simplifying testing
---

Dependency Injection is a fancy name for a simple concept: when you depend on some
functionality, add that dependency as a field on your struct and refer to it that way
instead of directly calling it. By doing so it becomes easier to test your services
by swapping out certain dependencies for other implementations (often with the use of
interfaces).

Encore provides built-in support for dependency injection in services. It works by
defining a struct type of your choice (typically called `Service`) and declaring it with
`//encore:service`. Then, you can define a special function named `initService`
(or `initWhatever` if you named the type `Whatever`)
that gets called by Encore to initialize your service when it starts up.

It looks like this:

```go
package email

//encore:service
type Service struct {
	sendgridClient *sendgrid.Client
}

func initService() (*Service, error) {
    client, err := sendgrid.NewClient()
    if err != nil {
        return nil, err
    }
    return &Service{sendgridClient: client}, nil
}
```

You can then define APIs as methods on this struct:
```go
//encore:api private
func (s *Service) Send(ctx context.Context, p *SendParams) error {
	// ... use s.sendgridClient to send emails ...
}
```


### Code Generation

When using a service struct like above, Encore will create a file named `encore.gen.go`
in your service directory. This file contains package-level functions for the APIs defined
as methods. In the example above, you would see:

```go
// Code generated by encore. DO NOT EDIT.

package email

import "context"

// These functions are automatically generated and maintained by Encore
// to simplify calling them from other services, as they were implemented as methods.
// They are automatically updated by Encore whenever your API endpoints change.

func Send(ctx context.Context, p *SendParams) error {
	// The implementation is elided here, and generated at compile-time by Encore.
	return nil
}
```

These functions are generated in order to allow other services to keep calling your
APIs as package-level functions, in the same way as before: `email.Send(...)`.
Other services do not have to care about whether you're using Dependency Injection
internally. You must always use these generated package-level functions for making API calls.

<Callout type="important">

Encore will automatically generate these files and keep them up to date
whenever your code changes. There is no need to manually invoke anything
to regenerate this code.

</Callout>

Encore adds all `encore.gen.go` files to your `.gitignore` since you typically
don't want to commit them to your repository; doing so ends up creating
a lot of unnecessary merge conflicts.

However, in some cases when running third-party linters in a CI/CD environment
it can be helpful to generate these wrappers to make the linter happy.
You can do that by invoking `encore gen wrappers`.

### Mocking dependencies

If you wish to mock out the SendGrid client for testing purposes you can change the
field to an interface:

```go
type sendgridClient interface {
	SendEmail(...) // a hypothetical signature, for illustration purposes
}

//encore:service
type Service struct {
    sendgridClient sendgridClient
}
```

Then during your tests you can instantiate the service object by hand:
```go
func TestFoo(t *testing.T) {
    svc := &Service{sendgridClient: &myMockClient{}}
    // ...
}
```

### Graceful Shutdown

When defining a service struct, Encore supports notifying
your service when it's time to gracefully shut down. This works
by having your service struct implement the method
`func (s *Service) Shutdown(force context.Context)`.

If that method exists, Encore will call it when it's time to begin
gracefully shutting down. Initially the shutdown is in "graceful mode",
which means that you have a few seconds to complete ongoing work.

The provided `force` context is canceled when the graceful shutdown window
is over, and it's time to forcefully shut down. The amount of time you have
from when `Shutdown` is called to when forceful shutdown begins depends on the
cloud provider and the underlying infrastructure, but typically is anywhere
from 5-30 seconds.

<Callout type="important">

Encore automatically handles graceful shutdown of all Encore-managed
functionality, such as HTTP servers, database connection pools,
Pub/Sub message receivers, distributed tracing recorders, and so on.
The graceful shutdown functionality is provided if you have additional,
non-Encore-related resources that need graceful shutdown.

</Callout>

Note that graceful shutdown in Encore is *cooperative*: Encore will wait indefinitely
for your `Shutdown` method to return. If your `Shutdown` method does not return promptly
after the `force` context is closed, the underlying infrastructure at your cloud provider
will typically force-kill your service, which can lead to lingering connections and other
such issues.
